# Thesis
Network security is the most crucial aspect of an organization. Technologies are evolving every day therefore, hackers are getting new techniques that can be used for attacking several organizations. This research aims to provide the required strength to a network so as to minimize the number of cyber-attacks on an organization.
The objective was to find out all the security aspects of an organization and to evaluate the impact of Business Intelligence in a network security system. To identify major network security challenges and to determine effective methods and techniques to protect the network from cyber-attacks and how we can improve the network security thereby preventing the attack before it occurs. In this, “Tableau” was used for BI reporting and “XGBoost” to check how accurate the model is. Also, compared the outputs from both Tableau visualizations and the XGBoost model to find out the loopholes and propose some recommendations to improve the network security.
Tableau helped in gaining knowledge of the past attacks and study those threats in detail. These visualizations helped in identifying the common characteristics of a particular attack on the network security system so that the parameters of the attack are recorded and the same is looked in for future network traffic. Using XGBoost, an accuracy of 91.95% and an F1 score of 92.85% is achieved which is free from class balancing and overfitting issues. Therefore, the machine learning model that is used in this research is effective and could be put in place to combat network hackers.
